# Planning and Collaborating

The main focus of this module is planning and collaborating on software
projects. You've already seen all the pieces you need in the Precourse! To
collaborate on a group project you will need:

- A repository
- Planning documents
- Issues
- labels, milestones and assignees
- A Project Board
- Pull Requests + code review

Wait, what?! HTML, CSS and JavaScript aren't even on that list! Understanding
why they are not on the list will give you a head start towards becoming a great
developer.

The difference between an ok developer and a great developer doesn't have to do
with the languages, frameworks or technologies they use. It has to do with their
discipline in planning, communication, and collaboration. Your projects in this
module may only use HTML and CSS, but the workflows you learn will be useful all
the way into your first job.

## The Method

In this module you will begin learning a method to plan and build projects in a
team. There are many methodologies for collaborating on software projects, each
company and even each team in the same company will have their own way of
working. This project method is designed for students at HYF and will prepare
you to take your first steps into a professional software team.

You will approach projects by first creating a schedule, then working in from
the big picture to finished source code. While there are many steps, there are
only 3 _milestones_ in your project life-cycle:

- **Planning**: steps 1-9
  - _milestone_: **planning**
- Development: step 10
  - _milestones_: **must-have**, **should-have**, **could-have**
- **Retrospective** step 11
  - _milestone_: **retrospective**

### Planning

In the **planning** phase of your project you will be gradually moving from the
_big picture_ to the _source code_.

After setting up your group repository and creating a schedule you will come up
with the big picture idea . This is how you might describe the project to a
friend if they ask what you're building. At this point you don't need to think
about the code or even what the site will look like, but you will want to think
about your group's _constraints_ - how much time do each of you have? what are
your skill levels? which technologies will you use?

The next step from the big picture towards the code is taking the user's
perspective and describing what they can do with your site . A backlog is a list
of **user stories** organized by priority \(**must-have**, **should-have**,
**could-have**\), these stories describe the user's experience as they navigate
your website. At this point you still shouldn't be thinking about how the page
will look.

Next you move from the user in front of the screen, to the screen itself. You
will create a wireframe to describe what the website will look like without any
detail, just big blocks and fake text. The idea is to agree as a group what
needs to be built, and to make sure that your website covers all the
**must-have** user stories in your backlog. Now that you know _what_ you're
building, how the _user_ will use it, and what it will _look_ like. It's time to
plan some code!

Take a step behind the screen and start planning the code you will need to write
for all of your **must-have** user stories. A development strategy will break
down your wireframe into small pieces and include your best guess at what code
you need to write for each piece. It will take lots of practice to write a good
Development Strategy, that's why you're learning about them so early in the
course!

### Development

In the **development** phase of your project you'll be gradually moving from
_boilerate code_ to a _finished web page_. A solid plan will get you started,
good teamwork will carry you to the end.

The fist step of development is to create _issues_ for all of your planned
tasks, organize the with _labels and milestones_ then move them to your repo's
project board. If you've written a good Development Strategy then this step
should be easy, you can almost copy-pasting the sections of your Development
Strategy into issues!

Once your project board is ready the fun begins, it's time for _development_!
Developing your code can feel much less organized than planning it, that's
normal. It's impossibcreate a perfect plan. Your teamwork skills will be put to
the test as you each work on separate branches, send Pull Requests, and build
your way through the TODO issues. Problems will come up and your plans will need
to change. This is the _agile_ way.

### Retrospective

Time's up, it's ok if your project isn't finished! In the **retrospective**
phase of your project you and your teammates will discuss what went well, what
went less well, and what you can improve for next time.

---

> - [Building Software Together](https://buildtogether.tech/) _a student's guide
>   to being a compassionate programmer_
